There are philosophers who can write and philosophers who cannot. Most of the
great philosophers belong to the first group. There are also, much more rarely,
philosophers who can write too well for their own good—as philosophers. Plato
wrote so dramatically that we shall never know for sure what precisely he himself
thought about any number of questions. And Nietzsche furnishes a more recent and
no less striking example. His philosophy can be determined, but his brilliant epigrams
and metaphors, his sparkling polemics and ceaseless stylistic experiments, make it
rather difficult to do so; and to read him solely to reconstruct the world of his ideas
would be obtuse pedantry. At least two things should come first: sheer enjoyment of
his writing, and then the more harrowing experience of exposing oneself to his many
passionate perspectives. We should not rashly take a well-phrased point for
Nietzsche's ultimate position, but we often stand to gain if we ask ourselves why it
should not be ours. Add to this that few writers in any age were so full of ideas—fruit
—ful, if not acceptable—and it is clear why he has steadily exerted a unique
fascination on the most diverse minds and why he is still so eminently worth reading.
An anthologist can easily re-create Nietzsche in his own image, even as writers of
lives of Jesus present us, perhaps as often as not, with wishful self-portraits.
Doubtless Nietzsche has attracted crackpots and villains, but perhaps the percentage
is no higher than in the case of Jesus. As Maritain has said: "If books were judged by
the bad uses man can put them to, what book has been more misused than the
Bible?"
The present volume is not an anthology. It contains the complete and unabridged
texts of four of Nietzsche's works; and the additional selections from his other books,
notes, and letters aim to round out the picture of his development, his versatility, his
inexhaustibility. There is much here that is surely admirable: formulations, epigrams,
insights, suggestions. And there is much that is shocking: bathos, sentences that invite
quotation out of context in support of hideous causes, silly arguments—and many
will recoil from his abundant blasphemies. For this is no "reader's digest" of
Nietzsche, no "essential Nietzsche," no distillation and no whitewash, but an attempt
to present as much as possible of him in one small volume. The book can of course be
read like Bartlett's Familiar Quotations, but what one gets out of Nietzsche may be
vaguely proportionate to the sustained attention one accords him.
The arrangement is chronological, and an effort has been made to give some idea
of the development of Nietzsche's thought and style, from his artless early notes to
his occasionally brilliant aphorisms; then to the gross unevenness of Zarathustra; the
incisive prose of his last works; and the alternation of diabolical polemic and furious
rhetoric in The Antichrist. In Nietzsche contra Wagner, calm returns as Nietzsche takes
time for once to edit some of his earlier prose and in places achieves perfection. His
last letters, written right after his breakdown, reflect the disintegration of his mind,
but they are still meaningful. The rest is silence.
II
The new translations were made because the older ones are unacceptable. As a
single, and admittedly extreme, example, the hitherto standard version of Zarathustra
is discussed briefly in the editor's preface to that work. Great writers are far more
difficult to transpose into another language than is usually supposed, and Nietzsche
poses many additional difficulties. While any detailed discussion of principles of
translation would lead too far, a few remarks may prove helpful.
Rather than flatten out Nietzsche's highly unusual German into stereotyped idioms,
an effort has been made to preserve as much as possible of his cadences, even where
they are awkwardly groping or overstrained. What is thus lost in smoothness is
gained for the understanding of the development of his style and personality.
A few of his terms create special difficulties; for example, Geist. To be perfectly
idiomatic, one would have to render it now as spirit, now as mind, now as intellect,
now as wit. But generally the connotation of Geist is much more inclusive than that of
any one of these words, and Nietzsche's meaning depends on this. If we select "spirit"
in one sentence and "wit" in another, something essential is lost: we get smooth
propositions, not Nietzsche. Hence it seemed important to stick to one English word;
and "spirit" was chosen. The religious overtones are entirely in order and altogether
indispensable for an understanding of many paradoxical passages, particularly in The
Antichrist; but it is well to keep in mind that the meaning is sometimes closer to esprit.
Mitleid has almost invariably been rendered by "pity," although "compassion"
would have the advantage that it too means literally "suffering with." The two
English terms, however, do not have entirely the same meaning, and it is no accident
that Aristotle, Spinoza, and La Rochefoucauld, of whose precedent Nietzsche makes
much, have all been translated in the past as criticizing "pity." And "pity" alone
suggests the strong possibility of obtrusiveness and condescension apart from which
Nietzsche's repugnance cannot be understood. Again, it would not do to alternate the
terms: pity, as Zarathustra's "final sin," is one of the central themes of Part Four, in
which many statements about pity in Part Two are quoted or alluded to; and such
later works as Twilight of the Idols and The Antichrist explicate the symbolism of
Zarathustra. Nietzsche, in short, is not only a brilliant writer but also a philosopher
who employs certain key terms, which must be rendered consistently. But the
problem is even more deeply rooted than has been suggested so far.
After publication, many writers cut the umbilical cord and are ready for another
conception. Nietzsche's works, however, are not independent creations. In the first
place, Nietzsche wrote, to use his own phrase, with his blood: each book is part of the
man, and the resulting existential unity makes all of them part of a single work. Each
aphorism looks as if it could be understood by itself—and up to a point, of course, it
can be—but in fact not even the books can be understood in isolation from one
another. Nietzsche himself insisted on this point and underlined it by frequent
quotations from, and allusions to, his earlier works. These internal echoes add
essential overtones and are important clues to Nietzsche's meaning. This is another
reason for consistency in translating certain words and phrases.
That Nietzsche did not dissociate himself from his published works but kept living
with them is surely due in part to the fact that publication was in no case a major
experience: for all the response he got, or rather did not get, the books might just as
well never have been published at all. They did not become public property but
remained his own—as children who fail to find a place in the world continue to be of
special concern to their parents. The self-quotations are sometimes, at least in part,
attempts to advertise himself. But it is far more fruitful to look at them, and at the far
more numerous allusions, as leitmotifs.
Taking their cue from Wagner's leitmotifs, Martin Buber and Franz Rosenzweig
have pointed out, in connection with their remarkable German translation of the
Hebrew Scriptures, that the style of the Old Testament often depends on Leitworte,
words which are central and particularly emphasized in one passage and then picked
up again elsewhere, thus establishing an unobtrusive cross reference—an association
which, even if only dimly felt, adds dimension to the meaning. Perhaps no major
writer is as biblical in this respect as Nietzsche.
A professor of philosophy who favored my Nietzsche with a most flattering review
regretted one lapse "in linguistic usage"—"the most unkindest cut of all."
Shakespeare, of course, is generally better known than this, but some apparent lapses
in this volume might well be due to the fact that Nietzsche knew the Bible so much
better than many people today. Certainly he knew it better than one of his chief
translators, who converted publicans into "toll-gatherers," the Last Supper into "The
Supper," "unknown god" into "unfamiliar god," and so on. When Zarathustra speaks
of trying the reins, the archaism is surely preferable to having him test kidneys.
Nietzsche's style is not Teutonic but European, and more than that: he alludes
freely to the books that constitute our Western heritage, from Homer to Dostoevski,
and he sprinkles his prose with French and Latin phrases. There is something very
modern in this: in his own phrase, Nietzsche was indeed a good European. But he
never comes as close to patchwork as Eliot in The Waste Land, and he holds a
reasonable mean between the cryptograms of the later Joyce and the obtrusive
erudition of Toynbee, who underlines every allusion to the Bible with a footnote.
Moreover, Nietzsche, unlike Joyce, almost invariably supplies a surface meaning too,
and recognition of his allusions reveals a multi-dimensional style of writing and
thinking, unlike Toynbee's.
It is not only his attitude toward religion that ranges Nietzsche far closer to Joyce
than to Toynbee: there is also his addiction to plays on words, which probably poses
the greatest single problem for the translator, especially in Zarathustra. But more of
that in the editor's preface to that work. Suffice it to say here that it is impossible to
be faithful to the content while sacrificing the form: meaning and mood are
inseparable. If the translator makes things easy for himself and omits a play on
words, he unwittingly makes a lighthearted pun or rhyme look serious, if he does not
reduce the whole passage to nonsense. And he abets the common misconception of
the austere Nietzsche, when, in fact, no other philosopher knew better how to laugh
at himself.
Those who browse in this volume will find a conglomeration where anyone reading
it straight through will likely find one of the most fascinating men of all time: a man
as multi-dimensional as his style, profound and then again piteous, as tragic as he is
widely supposed to have been, but no less comic—almost as different from his
popular caricatures as a character in Shakespeare, or more likely in Dostoevski, is
from the comic strip version of Superman. In his own formula: Ecce homo!
Nietzsche was born in 1844; lost his father, a Lutheran minister, in 1849; spent his
childhood surrounded by his mother, sister, grandmother, and two maiden aunts; was
sent to a first-rate boarding school, Schulpforta; and proceeded to the universities of
Bonn and Leipzig to study classical philology. Our knowledge of his youth rests
largely on his sister's later hagiographies, but the twenty-four-year-old comes to life
for us in the recommendation that earned him a professorship at Basel. The writer
was Friedrich Ritschl, a generally conservative professor at Leipzig.
"However many young talents I have seen develop under my eyes for thirty-nine
years now, never yet have I known a young man, or tried to help one along in my
field as best I could, who was so mature as early and as young as this Nietzsche. His
Museum articles he wrote in the second and third year of his triennium. He is the first
from whom I have ever accepted any contribution at all while he was still a student.
If—God grant—he lives long enough, I prophesy that he will one day stand in the
front rank of German philology. He is now twenty-four years old: strong, vigorous,
healthy, courageous physically and morally, so constituted as to impress those of a
similar nature. On top of that, he possesses the enviable gift of presenting ideas,
talking freely, as calmly as he speaks skillfully and clearly. He is the idol and,
without wishing it, the leader of the whole younger generation of philologists here in
Leipzig who—and they are rather numerous—cannot wait to hear him as a lecturer.
You will say, I describe a phenomenon. Well, that is just what he is—and at the same
time pleasant and modest. Also a gifted musician, which is irrelevant here."
But Nietzsche had not yet fulfilled his residence requirement and hence had no
doctorate. So Ritschl expected the case to be hopeless, "although in the present
instance," he wrote, "I should stake my whole philological and academic reputation
that the matter would work out happily." It is hardly surprising that Basel decided to
ignore the "formal insufficiency." Ritschl was delighted: "In Germany, that sort of
thing happens absolutely never." And he felt he should further describe his protégé.
"Nietzsche is not at all a specifically political nature. He may have in general, on
the whole, some sympathy for the growing greatness of Germany, but, like myself, no
special tendre for Prussianism; yet he has vivid feeling for free civic and spiritual
development, and thus certainly a heart for your Swiss institutions and way of living.
What more am I to say? His studies so far have been weighted toward the history of
Greek literature (of course, including critical and exegetical treatment of the
authors), with special emphasis, it seems to me, on the history of Greek philosophy.
But I have not the least doubt that, if confronted by a practical demand, with his
great gifts he will work in other fields with the best of success. He will simply be able
to do anything he wants to do."
Nietzsche was quite ready to work in other fields. He had read Schopenhauer as
well as Greek philosophy; he was deeply moved by Wagner's music, especially the
"shivery and sweet infinity" of Tristan; and no doctor's degree, conferred hurriedly
without examination, and no professorship could for a moment give him the idea that
he had "arrived." He was very conscientious when it came to his varied teaching
duties and carried an exceedingly heavy load without demur, but his mind soared
beyond the academic pale, and his first book was not designed to place him in the
front rank of German philology.
His years at Basel, where Nietzsche was the younger colleague of Jacob Burckhardt
and of Franz Overbeck, who remained his lifelong friend, were soon interrupted by
the Franco-Prussian War. Nietzsche, by now a Swiss subject, volunteered as a medical
orderly and served briefly before returning in shattered health. Without waiting for
complete recovery he plunged into an even heavier schedule than before and divided
his remaining time between visits to Richard Wagner in Tribschen, near Lucerne, and
his first book, published in 1872: The Birth of Tragedy. The topic was the sudden birth
and no less sudden death of tragedy among the Greeks. The thesis: born of music, it
died of that rationalism which found its outstanding incarnation in Socrates and
which is evident in the works of Euripides. The significance: an iconoclastic
conception of the Greeks, far removed from the "noble simplicity and calm grandeur"
of Winckelmann and Goethe, then still popular. The style: an essay, now brilliant,
now florid —without any scholarly apparatus. The greatest weakness: to the fifteen
sections on Greek tragedy, Nietzsche added another ten on Wagner and his new
music dramas, thus giving the whole work the appearance of mere special pleading
for his idol. Forty years later the great British classicist F. M. Cornford was to hail the
book as "a work of profound imaginative insight, which left the scholarship of a
generation toiling in the rear." But most of the philologists of Nietzsche's own
generation considered the book preposterous. What it is best known for today is its
contrast between the Apollinian (the serene sense of proportion which Winckelmann
had so admired and which found its crowning expression in Greek sculpture) and the
Dionysian (that flood which breaks through all restraints in the Dionysian festivals
and which finds artistic expression in music). In Nietzsche's later works the Dionysian
no longer signifies the flood of passion, but passion controlled as opposed to passion
extirpated, the latter being associated with Christianity.
In the following pages no attempt has been made to carve excerpts out of this
essay. Instead the almost complete text of Homer's Contest has been offered—a
fragment of 1872 that should be of greater help for an understanding both of
Nietzsche's early conception of ancient Greece and of his subsequent intellectual
development.
His later works made not the least pretense of any connection, however slight, with
his academic field. While carrying on with his academic duties as before, he followed
his first book with four Untimely Meditations. In 1873 he vivisected David Strauss's
highly successful The Old and the New Faith. The following year he published
reflections On the Use and Disadvantage of History for Life, as well as a meditation on
Schopenhauer as Educator; and in 1876, shortly before his break with Wagner, an
essay on the composer. This was Nietzsche's formative period, represented here by a
few notes and another particularly striking fragment.
All of the later books are represented in this volume, each prefaced by a brief
editorial note—a little longer in the case of works offered unabridged.
There are, first, the aphoristic works, beginning with Human, All-Too-Human and
ending with The Gay Science. The two great events in this period of Nietzsche's life
were his break with Wagner and his departure from the university. When the
composer, no longer the lonely genius of Tribschen, became the center of a cult at
Bayreuth, and his influence was widely felt not only in musicis, Nietzsche left him.
The jingoism and anti-Semitism, which had seemed relatively unimportant personal
idiosyncrasies, now called for a clear stand. Moreover Wagner, fond of Nietzsche as a
brilliant and likable professorial ally, had no interest in him as a writer and thinker in
his own right and stood in the way of Nietzsche's development. These factors, rather
than Nietzsche's growing reservations about Wagner's music, precipitated the breach.
Parsifal merely sealed it —and not because it was Christian but because Nietzsche
considered it an essentially insincere obeisance. Wagner, the disciple of Feuerbach
and Schopenhauer, the two great atheists, used medieval Christianity for theatrical
effect; the self-styled modern Aeschylus glorified the antithesis of all Greek ideals, the
"pure fool"; a composer whose personal worldly ambition knew no bounds wrote
Parsifal. If the friendship had given Nietzsche some of the happiest days of his life,
the break was one of his most painful experiences; and if the personal contact had
done its share to raise his horizon beyond philology and classical antiquity, the
breach spurred his ambition to rival and excel the composer and dramatist as a writer
and philosopher.
When Nietzsche resigned from the university in 1879 he claimed ill health, which
was true enough, and he obtained a pension. Clearly, however, he also felt that his
further development called for a break with his academic career as a professor of
philology.
Instead of returning to Germany, he spent most of the rest of his active life in
Switzerland and Italy—lonely, pain-racked writing. In 1882 he thought for a short
while that he had perhaps found a companion and intellectual heir—a Plato who
might fashion his many stimulating suggestions into a great philosophy: a young
woman, born in St. Petersburg in 1861, unquestionably of extraordinary intellectual
and artistic endowment. But Lou Salomé, who was later to become Rilke's beloved,
and still later a close friend of Freud, was then, at twenty-one, much more interested
in another young philosopher, Paul Rée. Her walks and talks with Nietzsche meant
less to her; but he never found another human being to whom he could expound his
inmost ideas as in those few weeks.
After Lou left he made his first attempt to put down his philosophy—not merely
sundry observations—in one major work: Zarathustra. He still did not proceed
systematically, and though the style reveals a decided change from the essays of his
first period and the aphorisms of the second, it is less philosophic than ever.
Rhapsody, satire, and epigram predominate; but Nietzsche's mature thought is
clouded and shrouded by an excess of adolescent emotion. Nevertheless, despite the
all-too-human self-pity and occasional bathos, the book is full of fascinating ideas;
and probably it owes its unique success with the broad mass of readers not least to its
worst qualities.
The book consists of four parts, originally published separately, and more were
planned. But Nietzsche came to realize that this style was not adequate for his
purposes, and he returned to his earlier aphoristic style, though with a difference.
Beyond Good and Evil, his next book, is much more continuous than appears at first
glance; and the Genealogy of Morals is composed of three inquiries which might well
be called essays.
All the while, Nietzsche assembled notes for a more comprehensive work which he
thought of calling The Will to Power. But he never got beyond those notes; and the
work later published by his sister under that title is nothing but an utterly uncritical
collection of some of Nietzsche's notes, including many he had already used, often
with significant changes, in his later works. This fabrication, though it certainly
contains some highly interesting material, must by no means be considered his last or
his main work.
In 1888 Nietzsche dashed off a brilliantly sarcastic polemic, The Wagner Case,
which was followed by a hundred-page epitome of his thought, Twilight of the Idols.
Then he gave up his intention of writing The Will to Power, decided to write a much
shorter chef-d'œuvre instead, under the title Revaluation of All Values, and completed
the first of four projected parts: The Antichrist. No sooner was this finished on a high
pitch of rhetoric than he turned around and, on the same day, wrote the relatively
calm preface for Twilight of the Idols; and, still in the same year, one of the world's
strangest autobiographical works, Ecce Homo. On Christmas Day, 1888, he completed
Nietzsche contra Wagner—and less than two weeks later he broke down, insane.
His madness was in all probability an atypical general paresis. If so, he must have
had syphilis; and since he is known to have lived a highly ascetic life, it is supposed
that, as a student, he had visited a brothel once or twice. This has never been
substantiated, and any detailed accounts of such experiences are either poetry or
pornography—not biography. Nor has the suggestion ever been disproved that he
may have been infected while nursing wounded soldiers in 1870.

It was only after his active life was over that Nietzsche's real career began. When
he died in 1900 he was world-famous and the center of a growing literature, of
controversies in periodicals and newspapers—an "influence." He has been discussed
and written about ever since, in connection with Darwin, Schopenhauer,
psychoanalysis, modern German poetry, World War I, Spengler, Christianity, Tolstoi,
the Nazis, World War II, existentialism—and whatever else was needed to fill
hundreds upon hundreds of volumes about him.
Nietzsche's impact is as manifold as his prose, and most interpreters select a single
strain or style, whether for praise or blame, quite unaware that there are more. It
might be best not even to think in terms of "influence"—a word that simplifies the
multifarious complexities of history after the manner of Procrustes. In any case, no
other German writer of equal stature has been so thoroughly opposed to all proto-
nazism—which Nietzsche encountered in Wagner's ideological tracts, in his sister's
husband, Bernhard Förster, and in various publications of his time. If some Nazi
writers cited him nevertheless, it was at the price of incredible misquotation and
exegetical acrobatics, which defy comparison with all the similar devices that
Nietzsche himself castigated in the name of the philological conscience. His works
were rejected as a series of poses; parenthetical statements were quoted as meaning
the opposite of what they plainly mean in context; and views he explicitly rejected
were brazenly attributed to him.
This process was greatly aided by Nietzsche's sister (of my Nietzsche)—but also by
his love of language. He could not resist a bon mot or a striking coinage, and he took
delight in inventing better slogans and epigrams for hostile positions than his
opponents could devise—and in breathing a new and unexpectedly different spirit
into such phrases. Witness "the will to power," "the overman," "beyond good and
evil," and dozens more.
Or consider a bon mot: when Nietzsche said, "Man does not strive for pleasure; only
the Englishman does," he was of course thinking of the ethics of Hume, Bentham, and
Mill, not of English cooking, coal fires, or Cromwell. Yet the remark may conceivably
have contributed, however indirectly, to Hitler's happy misconception of the English
as essentially effete and hedonistic, which so fortunately aided his defeat. Speaking of
influence here is sheer naïveté.
Nietzsche's orientation, as he himself insisted once more in Ecce Homo, was
fundamentally anti-political. His concern was primarily with the individual who is
not satisfied with accepted formulas—ranging all the way from patriotism to
Protestantism, and including everything that is in any sense, to use his own phrase,
"party." Any attempt to pigeonhole him is purblind. He celebrated reason, like some
of the thinkers of the Enlightenment, and passion, like some of the Romantics; he is
in many ways close to modern positivism, but the Existentialists recognize their own
pathos in him; atheists claim him, and many Christians feel they understand him
best.
V
The following reflections, far from classifying him, may help to define his unique
achievement. He tried to strengthen the heritage of the Enlightenment with a more
profound understanding of the irrational—something Hegel had attempted three-
quarters of a century earlier, but metaphysically and rather esoterically. Nietzsche
was determined to be empirical, and he approached his subject—as it surely should
be —with psychology. Of this Hegel had not yet had more than an inkling, and the
lack of any sustained psychological observation is one of the major shortcomings of
his magnificently conceived Phenomenology of the Spirit. But Hegel's contemporaries
had done little better: as psychologists, Bentham, Comte, and Mill were naive too.
One could almost ask with Nietzsche himself (in Ecce Homo, in the chapter "Why I
Am a Destiny"): "Who among philosophers before me has been a psychologist at all?"
If Nietzsche tried to deepen the Enlightenment with a psychology, he also
attempted to harness romanticism: by substituting an understanding of the passions
for a blind cult and by extolling the individual whose reason is a match for his
passions. He ridiculed license as much—though not as often—as "castratism," and he
upheld sublimation and creativity against both. All his heroes were men of superior
reason: passionate men who were the masters of their passion. The legend that Cesare
Borgia was his idol is easily refuted by an examination of the few references to him in
Nietzsche's works. Nietzsche preferred the Borgia (or, as he said, even Cesare Borgia)
to Parsifal, which is scarcely high praise from Nietzsche. Nor is his declaration in The
Antichrist that he wished Cesare had become pope. After all, the context leaves no
doubt that this would have delighted the author only because it might have meant
the end of the papacyl
This takes us to the third point: Nietzsche's uncompromising attitude toward
religion. If one considers the history of modern philosophy from Descartes, it is
surely, for good or ill, the story of an emancipation from religion. Or conversely: each
philosopher goes just so far, and then bows to Christianity and accepts what becomes
unacceptable to his successors. Descartes resolves to doubt everything, but soon
offers proofs of God's existence that have long been shown to be fallacious. A similar
pattern recurs in Hobbes and Spinoza, though they stray much farther from all
orthodoxies, and, a little later, in Berkeley and Leibniz. Locke is an "empiricist" who
cites Scripture to his purpose; Voltaire, an anti-Christian who accepts the teleological
argument for God's existence. Kant sets out to smash not only the proofs of God but
the very foundations of Christian metaphysics, then turns around and "postulates"
God and the immortality of the soul, preparing the way for Fichte and idealism.
Schopenhauer, finally, breaks with Christianity but accepts the metaphysics of the
Upanishads from Hinduism. Nietzsche is one of the first thinkers with a
comprehensive philosophy to complete the break with religion. Other equally secular
philosophers of the nineteenth century who preceded him do not match the range of
his interests and the scope of his vision. Before his time there were really but two
modern philosophers who were equally, or almost equally, unchristian: Bacon (whose
aphoristic experimentalism Nietzsche admired; but for all his programmatic pathos,
Bacon had no comparable philosophy) and Hume (whose skepticism is an exercise in
lack of pathos and intensity). Though Hume and Nietzsche are antipodes in
temperament, they are in many ways close to each other in their thinking—and this
leads us to the final point.
Nietzsche is close not only to the man who was the grandfather of so much in
modern English and American philosophy, David Hume, but also to this modern
philosophy itself. Occasionally he anticipated it by several decades, and it might still
profit from his stimulation. Above all, however, Nietzsche is the last best bridge
between positivism and existentialism, if we take both labels in the widest possible
sense. Today German and Romance philosophy and Anglo-American "analysis" are
completely out of touch with each other. Thus Nietzsche, once stupidly denounced as
the mind that caused the First World War, might well become a major aid to
international understanding: reminding Continental European and South American
thinkers of the benefits of rigorous analysis, while at the same time summoning
English-speaking philosophers to consider the "existential" implications of their
thinking. In his irreverent exposés of metaphysical foibles and fables he yields to
none. But he is inspired not by Hume's comfortable smugness, nor by Comte's conceit
that he might revolutionize society, nor by the cliquish delight in sheer proficiency
and skill that occasionally besets contemporary efforts. Instead he is motivated by an
intense concern with the meaning of his thought for the individual. And thus he not
only anticipates both modern "analysis" and existentialism, but he has much to offer
each: above all, an approach to the other major strain of modern secular philosophy.
In sum: Nietzsche's challenge is twofold. He might conceivably come into his own
by re-establishing some bond between what are now two completely divergent
branches of modern thought, thus benefiting both. Meanwhile it is the individual
reader whom he addresses. And he does not want to be read as an arsenal of
arguments for or against something, nor even for a point of view. He challenges the
reader not so much to agree or disagree as to grow.